templates/python/cheatsheet.md, before:

# Bots Python Cheatsheet

## Indentation
Python groups statements through indentation.
So this:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if name == "John":
    print("Hello")
    print("John")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
will print `Hello John` if `name` equals `John` and nothing in all other cases.

This, on the other hand:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if name == "John":
    print("Hello")
print("John")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Will print only "Hello" if `name` equals `John` but will always print `John`
regardless of the value of `name`.

## The mighty :
Place a colon almost anywhere where you would normally usa a curly bracket.
So this:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for (int i = 0; i < 10; ++i) {
    print("Hello World");
}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Looks like this in Python:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for i in range(0, 10):
    print("Hello World")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Boolean and Null

* true is `True`
* false is `False`
* null is `None`

## Using the index operator

You can use the index operator `[]` to access elements in an array or string.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
alphabet = "abc"
alphabetList = ["a", "b", "c"]

print(alphabet[0])
print(alphabetList[1])
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a
b
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Length
Getting the length of an array or string.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
print(len("abc")
print(len(["a", "b"])
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3
2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Sleep
Make the current thread sleep for a given amount of seconds.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import time

time.sleep(5)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Variables
Python is dynamically typed, so there is no explicit type declaration upon
variable creation.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 123                     # integer
x = 123L                    # long integer
x = 3.14                    # double float
x = "hello"                 # string
x = [0,1,2]                 # list
x = (0,1,2)                 # tuple
x = open(‘hello.py’, ‘r’)   # file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please bear in mind to use floats when you expect a float. Dividing two
integers may not be what you want:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 1 / 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
# python 2
0
# python 3
0.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Instead do:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 1.0 / 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Casting
There may be times when you want to specify a type on a variable.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 1.0 / 2
print(x)
print(int(x))
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0.5
0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


## If-Statement
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if i < 3:
    print("Smaller than 3")
elif i == 3:
    print("Equals 3")
else:
    print("Something else")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Combining statements:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if i < 3 and j > 5:
    print("Smaller than 3 and larger than 5")
elif i == 3 or j == 3:
    print("One of i or j equals 3")
else:
    print("Something else")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Loops

### Iterating over an array
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
alphabet = ["a", "b", "c"]

for letter in alphabet:
    print(letter)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a
b
c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Iterating over a string
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for letter in "abc":
    print(letter)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a
b
c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Getting index and value while iterating
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for index, letter in enumerate("abc"):
    print(index, letter)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 a
1 b
2 c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Of course there are also `while`-Loops:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
while True:
    print("And running")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Random
Create random int between 0 and 9:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import random

i = random.randint(0,9)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Choose random element from string or list:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import random

alphabet = "abc"
randomLetter = random.choice(alphabet)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Find a character in a string
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
content = "Hello"
pos = content.find("e")
if pos > -1:
    print(pos)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Regular Expressions
Getting all letters from a given string:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import re

content = "123456a.b.c.654321"
letters = re.findall(r"[a-z]", content)
print(letters)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
abc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
def call_me(name):
    print(name)
    return name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## More

For more detailed examples of the Python language see
[here](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/python3/).

## Useful snippets

### Read one character from a terminal without waiting for Enter

#### On Linux/BSD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
def read_char():
    import sys, termios, tty
    fd = sys.stdin.fileno()
    old_settings = termios.tcgetattr(fd)
    try:
        tty.setraw(sys.stdin.fileno())
        ch = sys.stdin.read(1)
    finally:
        termios.tcsetattr(fd, termios.TCSADRAIN, old_settings)
    return ch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#### On Windows
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
def read_char():
    import msvcrt
    return msvcrt.getch().decode()
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Commit message:

Add instructions for windows installation

templates/python/cheatsheet.md, after:

# Bots Python Cheatsheet

## Install on windows
1. Download [Python 3.7.3](https://www.python.org/downloads/) (Don't use the windows store version)
2. Follow the instruction of the mighty installation wizard
3. For an IDE we suggest [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/#section=mac)

## Indentation
Python groups statements through indentation.
So this:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if name == "John":
    print("Hello")
    print("John")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
will print `Hello John` if `name` equals `John` and nothing in all other cases.

This, on the other hand:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if name == "John":
    print("Hello")
print("John")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Will print only "Hello" if `name` equals `John` but will always print `John`
regardless of the value of `name`.

## The mighty :
Place a colon almost anywhere where you would normally usa a curly bracket.
So this:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for (int i = 0; i < 10; ++i) {
    print("Hello World");
}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Looks like this in Python:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for i in range(0, 10):
    print("Hello World")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Boolean and Null

* true is `True`
* false is `False`
* null is `None`

## Using the index operator

You can use the index operator `[]` to access elements in an array or string.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
alphabet = "abc"
alphabetList = ["a", "b", "c"]

print(alphabet[0])
print(alphabetList[1])
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a
b
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Length
Getting the length of an array or string.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
print(len("abc")
print(len(["a", "b"])
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3
2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Sleep
Make the current thread sleep for a given amount of seconds.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import time

time.sleep(5)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Variables
Python is dynamically typed, so there is no explicit type declaration upon
variable creation.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 123                     # integer
x = 123L                    # long integer
x = 3.14                    # double float
x = "hello"                 # string
x = [0,1,2]                 # list
x = (0,1,2)                 # tuple
x = open(‘hello.py’, ‘r’)   # file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please bear in mind to use floats when you expect a float. Dividing two
integers may not be what you want:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 1 / 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
# python 2
0
# python 3
0.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Instead do:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 1.0 / 2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Casting
There may be times when you want to specify a type on a variable.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
x = 1.0 / 2
print(x)
print(int(x))
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0.5
0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


## If-Statement
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if i < 3:
    print("Smaller than 3")
elif i == 3:
    print("Equals 3")
else:
    print("Something else")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Combining statements:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
if i < 3 and j > 5:
    print("Smaller than 3 and larger than 5")
elif i == 3 or j == 3:
    print("One of i or j equals 3")
else:
    print("Something else")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Loops

### Iterating over an array
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
alphabet = ["a", "b", "c"]

for letter in alphabet:
    print(letter)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a
b
c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Iterating over a string
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for letter in "abc":
    print(letter)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a
b
c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Getting index and value while iterating
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
for index, letter in enumerate("abc"):
    print(index, letter)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 a
1 b
2 c
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Of course there are also `while`-Loops:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
while True:
    print("And running")
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Random
Create random int between 0 and 9:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import random

i = random.randint(0,9)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Choose random element from string or list:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import random

alphabet = "abc"
randomLetter = random.choice(alphabet)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Find a character in a string
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
content = "Hello"
pos = content.find("e")
if pos > -1:
    print(pos)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Regular Expressions
Getting all letters from a given string:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
import re

content = "123456a.b.c.654321"
letters = re.findall(r"[a-z]", content)
print(letters)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Output:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
abc
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## Functions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
def call_me(name):
    print(name)
    return name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

## More

For more detailed examples of the Python language see
[here](https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/python3/).

## Useful snippets

### Read one character from a terminal without waiting for Enter

#### On Linux/BSD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
def read_char():
    import sys, termios, tty
    fd = sys.stdin.fileno()
    old_settings = termios.tcgetattr(fd)
    try:
        tty.setraw(sys.stdin.fileno())
        ch = sys.stdin.read(1)
    finally:
        termios.tcsetattr(fd, termios.TCSADRAIN, old_settings)
    return ch
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#### On Windows
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ {.python .numberLines}
def read_char():
    import msvcrt
    return msvcrt.getch().decode()
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
