tournament/README.md, before:

# Bots Tournament

To run a tournament with many players and bots accross many games, you
may simply use a "Makefile" to compose a menu of games you want to play
at this event.

Just put this into a file named "Makefile" (or copy the accompanying
`Makefile.template`):

	BOTS ?= ../server/bots
	STARTERS ?= 7
	FLAGS ?= --format json \
		--min-starters $(STARTERS) \
		--name-file names \
		--remote-spectators \
		--max-spectators 1
	REPLAY ?= $(shell date +%Y%m%d-%H%M%S).json

	escape:
		$(BOTS) $(FLAGS) $@ > $(REPLAY)

	rumble:
		$(BOTS) $(FLAGS) --diagonal-interval 1 $@ > $(REPLAY)

	# add more games here!

And add your games and their invocation.
Also make sure to see below what the `FLAGS` are about.

## Run a game

With a "Makefile" like this, it's very simple to run (and save!)
pre-configured games. For example, to run the `escape` game from the
template, you'd run:

	$ make escape

You can also override the definitions at the top of the file to match
your situation. For example, if you need to temporarily override the
number of required players to start a game, you can easily do so:

	$ STARTERS=8 make escape

Please note that the server output is redirected into a JSON file
(`... > $(REPLAY)`) and you won't see any output on the command line.

These JSON files can be used to replay games later (using the
[WebGL visualizer][spectator]) and, more importantly, to generate
the highscores (see below).

## Visualization

If you want to see the game while it's happening, you may also use
the [WebGL visualizer][spectator]) and add a spectator to the game.

This is what the `--remote-spectators` and `--max-spectators 1` options
in `FLAGS` are for.

## Mapping of bots to letters

By default, the server automatically assigns a letter in IP address order
to each connected bot. This can become a problem when there is a device
change or when the number of bots or players changes during the tournament.

To permanently assign the same letter to the same IP address, you should
create a text file that maps all IP address of participants to a letter
(from "A" to "P"):

	192.168.1.3 A
	192.168.1.7 A
	192.168.1.9 N
	192.168.1.5 F
	...

There can be multiple entries for a letter so a team can use different
machines for different games. Within a game, however, the player names
are unique, of course.

Save this file as "names" and put it in the same directory where the
Makefile is. This is what the `--name-file` option in `FLAGS` is for.

## Highscores

After having run a number of games, you'll want to see a combined
highscore table like this:

	Place Name  Address                           Score
	---------------------------------------------------
		1 B     192.168.1.110                       186
		2 A     192.168.1.3                         185
		3 F     192.168.1.5                         184
		4 N     192.168.1.9                         183
		5 C     192.168.1.68                        181
		5 G     192.168.1.105                       181

For this, you just need to run the Python script `highscores`:

	$ ./highscores PATH_TO_JSON_FILES

You may add another rule for this to the Makefile:

	scores:
		@./highscores .

So you can do:

	$ make scores

[spectator]: https://github.com/ChristianNorbertBraun/bots_spectator

Commit message:

Add an optional long name in the name file
Use the third column (in the name file) for a long name and show
it in place of the IP address.

Also update help and documentation about long names.

tournament/README.md, after:

# Bots Tournament

To run a tournament with many players and bots accross many games, you
may simply use a "Makefile" to compose a menu of games you want to play
at this event.

Just put this into a file named "Makefile" (or copy the accompanying
`Makefile.template`):

	BOTS ?= ../server/bots
	STARTERS ?= 7
	FLAGS ?= --format json \
		--min-starters $(STARTERS) \
		--name-file names \
		--remote-spectators \
		--max-spectators 1
	REPLAY ?= $(shell date +%Y%m%d-%H%M%S).json

	escape:
		$(BOTS) $(FLAGS) $@ > $(REPLAY)

	rumble:
		$(BOTS) $(FLAGS) --diagonal-interval 1 $@ > $(REPLAY)

	# add more games here!

And add your games and their invocation.
Also make sure to see below what the `FLAGS` are about.

## Run a game

With a "Makefile" like this, it's very simple to run (and save!)
pre-configured games. For example, to run the `escape` game from the
template, you'd run:

	$ make escape

You can also override the definitions at the top of the file to match
your situation. For example, if you need to temporarily override the
number of required players to start a game, you can easily do so:

	$ STARTERS=8 make escape

Please note that the server output is redirected into a JSON file
(`... > $(REPLAY)`) and you won't see any output on the command line.

These JSON files can be used to replay games later (using the
[WebGL visualizer][spectator]) and, more importantly, to generate
the highscores (see below).

## Visualization

If you want to see the game while it's happening, you may also use
the [WebGL visualizer][spectator]) and add a spectator to the game.

This is what the `--remote-spectators` and `--max-spectators 1` options
in `FLAGS` are for.

## Mapping of bots to letters

By default, the server automatically assigns a letter in IP address order
to each connected bot. This can become a problem when there is a device
change or when the number of bots or players changes during the tournament.

To permanently assign the same letter to the same IP address, you should
create a text file that maps all IP address of participants to a letter
(from "A" to "P"):

	192.168.1.3 A Bob
	192.168.1.7 A Alice
	192.168.1.9 N
	192.168.1.5 F
	...

There can be multiple entries for a letter so a team can use different
machines for different games. Within a game, however, the player names
are unique, of course.

The third column is optional and can contain a longer name. Then this long
name is displayed instead of the IP address.

Save this file as "names" and put it in the same directory where the
Makefile is. This is what the `--name-file` option in `FLAGS` is for.

## Highscores

After having run a number of games, you'll want to see a combined
highscore table like this:

	Place Name  Address                           Score
	---------------------------------------------------
		1 B     192.168.1.110                       186
		2 A     192.168.1.3                         185
		3 F     192.168.1.5                         184
		4 N     192.168.1.9                         183
		5 C     192.168.1.68                        181
		5 G     192.168.1.105                       181

For this, you just need to run the Python script `highscores`:

	$ ./highscores PATH_TO_JSON_FILES

You may add another rule for this to the Makefile:

	scores:
		@./highscores .

So you can do:

	$ make scores

[spectator]: https://github.com/ChristianNorbertBraun/bots_spectator
